- So, as promised, we're now going to start
taking a look at actions that are taken
on each individual bean in the factory
with the instantiation phase.
So once again, back to our big chart.
So the entire bean factory's been processed.
We're now going to iterate over each bean individually
and do the work that is necessary
following these steps.
So, we're going to construct some objects
and let's talk about what that means.
So beans are instantiation in the factory
using the constructors.
Of course, you have to construct an object
using a constructor in the Java programming language.
Now the most important thing
and something that we alluded to earlier,
is that these are done in the correct order
to insure that dependencies are always created first.
So classes that have the most dependencies
are going to actually be done towards the end
because they've got to have everything else
created for them before they are created.
The handle to the class instance remains
in the bean factory for the lifecycle
of the application for singletons.
Again, this only applies to singletons at this point.
Anything other than a singleton bean
will not actually be constructed
because they're prototypes or sessions
that have very specific use cases
that we will discuss.
Now there is a concept of Eager versus Lazy
construction of beans.
By default, all beans are instantiated eagerly.
All beans
instantiated eagerly.
That's important to note
because to truly be a lazy bean,
there can be nothing that depends on them.
And the reality is, most of the time
we're trying to save a little bitta RAM at runtime
and none of this really matters from that perspective
on most modern systems, but a bean to be lazy,
it can't have anything dependent on it
because otherwise it has to be constructed first,
and that just makes sense.
Now lazy beans you can specify a bean as lazy,
but the ApplicationContext reserves the right
to ignore it, and often it will.
So even though you may mark a bean as lazy
it may still be constructed
because the ApplicationContext doesn't have to
really follow those rules
and it may have a reason for doing so,
specifically that there's some unintended consequence
of not constructing it.
So, when this phase is complete,
the bean pointer is still referenced in the BeanFactory.
And that's going to remain unchanged.
Objects have been constructed
but they're not ready for use.
So even though we have objects in the BeanFactory,
we can't use 'em, we can't play with 'em,
and that's by design.
And we're going to talk about what happens afterwards
that's really critical to know
because we talked a little bit ago
about lifecycle methods
and those are going to come into play.
So that's how we can still hold this handle
to the lifecycle starting up
but not let the application fully run.